# 0. Introduction

## What this book is about

I'll be coding a simple backend in php, using an onion architecture for my business logic, a command pattern to expose use cases, and test-driven development throughout to ensure quality and maintainability. 

The resulting application will in many ways adhere to the principles laid out by Uncle Bob in his talk ["Architecture: the lost years"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WpkDN78P884), in which he argues against tying logic to a particular web framework.

This series is written as a documentation of the thought process that goes into building a piece of software. Initial assumptions will be wrong and code will evolve, just like in real life.

Even though the series is long, most of it is about explaining concepts. After having a solid grasp of the fundamentals and some practice, writing software like this isn't necessarily slower than using an MVC framework. And in terms of maintainability, I reckon it's better.

## A little background

On a recent trip to London I installed Nightmapper, a little iphone app that shows parties happening nearby. I have yet to find a better app for when I'm out and about with no idea where to go next.

Its user experience is amazing. There's a map, centered on your location, with a bunch of pins representing parties happening that night. A black bar at the bottom screen tells you everything you need to know to decide whether or not you might be interested: party name, opening and closing times, admission price, and how far away it is. Location is key here: the first party you see is the one closest to your location. You can tap the bar to get a lot more information, or you can swipe left and right to change party. They're sorted by distance to you, which is great. 

Back in Berlin I attacked the app store in search of something similar, but no luck. Most nightlife apps just plain suck, and the decent ones come nowhere near the UX of Nightmapper. What's a programmer to do??

## The plan

I need:

- A **backend** with an events database and an API. I can code this myself.
- An **app**. I never made an ios app before. I can either learn, use Phonegap or get someone to do it.
- A **data source**. No way I'm manually adding events or hoping venues cooperate with me out of the kindness of their hearts. More on this later.

Let's focus on the backend, because this is a series on php after all.

In the old days I'd whip out a framework, create a data model with mysql or postgres in mind, put logic in the controllers - or in services if I was feling fancy - and I was off to the races.

That's how most software is made these days, and it's also why most software is full of bugs that take forever to fix.

