# 3. Architecture

## Onion

### What's the Onion Architecture

I said I'd use an onion architecture, so let me elaborate. Basically it's about organizing code in layers and carefully keeping dependencies always pointing towards the center.

You want the relationship between an inner layer and an outer layer to be just like the relationship between you (inner layer) and your jacket (outer layer): you can easily remove it and put on another. The jacket depends on you to serve its purpose, but you don't really depend on the jacket. You can even put on a sweater instead. This is called 'decoupling' and is key for making reusable components.

Let's see what layers we need for Partymapper.

#### Layer 1: Domain Entities

At the core of the onion lies the data model, represented in domain entities. Entities care only about their data and each other, so any business logic they expose tends to be simple. Entities certainly don't know about databases or sessions or anything like that.

#### Layer 2: Persistence

This is where data is read from, and written to. It's commonly known as the database access layer, although other mechanisms may be used - flat files, external APIs, mail servers, anything can conceivably be a valid data source.

The repository pattern is a great way to implement this layer. Think of repositories as collections you get stuff from and add stuff to. These collections know about the entities in the inner layer, and obviously how to retrieve and save them.

#### Layer 3: Business logic

At the end of the day, this is what it's all about. It's where an application's use cases live. They can be anything, but most follow a well defined pattern:

- Receive some sort of request
- Manipulate data (entities)
- Possibly interact with repositories
- Possibly return some sort of output

### What it looks like

[notebook picture: onion layers]


## Command Pattern

...

## Dependency Injection

...
